add saml and oidc example (#7566)
aws-amplify/docs: src/pages/[platform]/build-a-backend/auth/concepts/external-identity-providers/index.mdx

</Accordion>
</InlineFilter>

## Configure OIDC provider

To setup a OIDC provider, you can configure them in your `amplify/auth/resource.ts` file. For example, if you would like to setup a Microsoft EntraID provider, you can do so as follows:

```ts title="amplify/auth/resource.ts"
import { defineAuth, secret } from '@aws-amplify/backend';

export const auth = defineAuth({
  loginWith: {
    email: true,
    externalProviders: {
      oidc: [
        {
          name: 'MicrosoftEntraID',
          clientId: secret('MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_ID'),
          clientSecret: secret('MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_SECRET'),
          issuerUrl: '<your-issuer-url>',
        },
      ],
      logoutUrls: ['http://localhost:3000/', 'https://mywebsite.com'],
      callbackUrls: [
        'http://localhost:3000/profile',
        'https://mywebsite.com/profile',
      ],
    },
  },
});
```

<InlineFilter filters={["angular", "javascript", "nextjs", "react", "vue"]}>

Use the `signInWithRedirect` API to initiate sign-in with an OIDC identity provider.

```ts title="src/my-client-side-js.js"
import { signInWithRedirect } from 'aws-amplify/auth';

await signInWithRedirect({

>   custom: 'MicrosoftEntraID'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  provider: {
    custom: 'MicrosoftEntraID'
  }
```

  provider: {
    custom: 'MicrosoftEntraID'
  }
});
```
</InlineFilter>

## Configure SAML provider

To setup a SAML provider, you can configure them in your `amplify/auth/resource.ts` file. For example, if you would like to setup a Microsoft EntraID provider, you can do so as follows:

```ts title="amplify/auth/resource.ts"
import { defineAuth } from '@aws-amplify/backend';

export const auth = defineAuth({
  loginWith: {
    email: true,
    externalProviders: {
      saml: {
        name: 'MicrosoftEntraIDSAML',
        metadata: {
          metadataContent: '<your-url-hosting-saml-metadata>', // or content of the metadata file
          metadataType: 'URL', // or 'FILE'
        },
      },
      logoutUrls: ['http://localhost:3000/', 'https://mywebsite.com'],
      callbackUrls: [
        'http://localhost:3000/profile',
        'https://mywebsite.com/profile',
      ],
    },
  },
});
```

<InlineFilter filters={["angular", "javascript", "nextjs", "react", "vue"]}>

Use the `signInWithRedirect` API to initiate sign-in with a SAML identity provider.

```ts title="src/my-client-side-js.js"
import { signInWithRedirect } from 'aws-amplify/auth';

await signInWithRedirect({

>   custom: 'MicrosoftEntraIDSAML'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  provider: {
    custom: 'MicrosoftEntraID'
  }
```

</Accordion>
</InlineFilter>

## Configure OIDC provider

> To setup a OIDC provider, you can configure them in `amplify/auth/resource.ts` file on the defineAuth handler. For example, if you would like to setup a Microsoft EntraID provider, you can do so as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To setup a OIDC provider, you can configure them in your `amplify/auth/resource.ts` file. For example, if you would like to setup a Microsoft EntraID provider, you can do so as follows:
```

```ts title="amplify/auth/resource.ts"
import { defineAuth, secret } from '@aws-amplify/backend';

export const auth = defineAuth({
  loginWith: {
    email: true,
    externalProviders: {
      oidc: [
        {
          name: 'MicrosoftEntraID',
          clientId: secret('MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_ID'),
          clientSecret: secret('MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_SECRET'),
          issuerUrl: '<your-issuer-url>',
        },
      ],
      logoutUrls: ['http://localhost:3000/', 'https://mywebsite.com'],
      callbackUrls: [
        'http://localhost:3000/profile',
        'https://mywebsite.com/profile',
      ],
    },
  },
});
```

### Set up your frontend

> <InlineFilter filters={["angular", "javascript", "nextjs", "react", "vue"]}>

Reviewer 2: can we link out to the sign-in page? these duplicate headings are going to cause issues with the anchor, and the inline filter will show an empty section

Author: https://github.com/aws-amplify/docs/pull/7566/files#diff-d59fe95d17fcc94afb4be025157ed7e88a6b2fb97f15755da89c6127e1b19c53L347 
but we do have it at already at end of page

can change to eg: setup SAML redirect on frontend

Use the `signInWithRedirect` API to initiate sign-in with an OIDC identity provider.

```ts title="src/my-client-side-js.js"
import { signInWithRedirect } from 'aws-amplify/auth';

await signInWithRedirect({
  custom: 'MicrosoftEntraID'
});
```
</InlineFilter>

## Configure SAML provider

> To setup a SAML provider, you can configure them in `amplify/auth/resource.ts` file on the defineAuth handler. For example, if you would like to setup a Microsoft EntraID provider, you can do so as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To setup a SAML provider, you can configure them in your `amplify/auth/resource.ts` file. For example, if you would like to setup a Microsoft EntraID provider, you can do so as follows:
```

```ts title="amplify/auth/resource.ts"
import { defineAuth } from '@aws-amplify/backend';

export const auth = defineAuth({
  loginWith: {
    email: true,
    externalProviders: {
      saml: {
        name: 'MicrosoftEntraIDSAML',
        metadata: {
          metadataContent: '<your-url-hosting-saml-metadata>', // or content of the metadata file
          metadataType: 'URL', // or 'FILE'
        },
      },
      logoutUrls: ['http://localhost:3000/', 'https://mywebsite.com'],
      callbackUrls: [
        'http://localhost:3000/profile',
        'https://mywebsite.com/profile',
      ],
    },
  },
});
```

### Set up your frontend

<InlineFilter filters={["angular", "javascript", "nextjs", "react", "vue"]}>

> Use the `signInWithRedirect` API to initiate sign-in with an SAML identity provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `signInWithRedirect` API to initiate sign-in with a SAML identity provider.
```
